h1. About

lobid-authorities: access GND data as JSON-LD over HTTP.

h1. Setup

Prerequisites: @sbt 0.13@ &mdash; "download sbt":http://www.scala-sbt.org/download.html

Get the code and change into the project directory:

@git clone https://github.com/hbz/lobid-authorities.git@

@cd lobid-authorities@

h2. Data

Get the GND RDF/XML source data:

@wget -O GND.rdf.gz http://datendienst.dnb.de/cgi-bin/mabit.pl?cmd=fetch&userID=opendata&pass=opendata&mabheft=GND.rdf.gz@

@gunzip GND.rdf.gz@

This should give you a local file called 'GND.rdf'. You can configure file names in 'conf/application.conf'.

Convert the data to JSON-LD lines, the index data format:

@sbt "runMain apps.Convert"@

With the default 'conf/application.conf' this should give you a local file called 'GND.jsonl'.

h2. Web

In 'lobid-authorities', run the web application:

@sbt run@

Open "http://localhost:9000/authorities":http://localhost:9000/authorities

If no local index exists, indexing will happen automatically on the first startup. See logs for details.

h2. Eclipse

To set up an Eclipse project, first generate the Eclipse config for your machine:

@sbt "eclipse with-source=true"@

Then install the Play 2 support from the "Scala IDE update site":http://scala-ide.org/download/current.html.

E.g. for Eclipse 4.6 (Neon), choose "Help" > "Install New Software" and use:

@http://download.scala-ide.org/sdk/lithium/e46/scala212/stable/site@

Select the 'Play 2 support' feature.

Then import the project in Eclipse: "File" > "Import" > "Existing Projects into Workspace".